---
layout: article
title: 21 days
excerpt: 'Another goal achieve - Cras alius dies est'
category: articles
image:
  feature: 21days-feature.png
  teaser: 21days-teaser.png
  thumb: 21days-thumb.png
  credit: 'Provided by StockSnap.io'
  creditlink: 'https://stocksnap.io/photo/TUIRU743JZ'
tags: [personal, commitments, FOSS]
comments: true
---

Today marks the day of 21 straight days of commits, a goal I set for myself last time in my [_One Small Step for Man_][1] post. I am not sure I would call it a habit quite yet but it is something that I have found myself saying, "Oh, I need to find something to commit today!". It has been fun so far and I plan on keeping it going. I believe my next goal will be the "average" of 66 days to see if I feel if it's a habit by then or not. Either way, I feel this will be able to become a habit. I have a great supporter who helps remind me and supports me in this as well as all my endeavors.

I am still seeking to find my place in the FOSS community, find that one project or that one thing where I can leave my mark. I know it doesn't have to be a single thing but it's more of a figurative "thing" than a literal "thing".

One thing I am happy about thus far though is the exposure I am getting to all of the different libraries, technology, design practices, frameworks, argh.... I could go on and on listing all of the things out there to learn in this industry, but besides getting paid to do what I would be doing as a hobby anyway, the massive amount of things out there to learn is what appeals to me the most. One of my idols, Albert Einstein is quoted with saying, "Once you stop learning, you start dying" though I couldn't find the direct quotable source for it. I feel that is a very true statement.

On the topic of learning, I am also going to finally start doing screencasts over some of the topics that I am either learning about or already know about. I figured this would be a good way to help me learn and perhaps help someone else out along the way. If not, at least it sounds like an interesting project and one that I have had listed on my TODO list for a while.

I am going to quit rambling now as it is Thanksgiving morning and everyone is getting ready for a feast! Happy Thanksgiving to everyone that reads this.

[Cras alius dies est!][2]

Until next time...

[1]:	https://utopianconcept.com/articles/one-small-step-for-man/ "One Small Step for Man"
[2]:	https://translate.google.com/?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&client=tw-ob#auto/en/Cras%20alius%20dies%20est "Tomorrow is another day"
